## Dependency Injection (DI)

### Coding without Dependency Injection

* Objects take responsibility for managing their own dependencies.
* Generally leads to more tightly coupled code.
* Can require coding changes to manage changes with dependencies.
* Can make classes more difficult to unit test.

### Coding with Dependency Injection

* Generally leads to a loosely coupled code.
* The class is not responsible for determining its dependencies.
* This allows the class to be composed at run time.

### Dependency Injection with Spring 

* Dependency Injection is a core feature of the Spring Framework.
* The Spring Framework determines the dependencies to inject into your classes at runtime.
  * This is known as **Inversion of Control**. The framework is in control of what gets injected.
  
### Types of Dependency Injection

* Constructor Based Dependency Injection.
  * Preferred by some so class cannot be instantiated without its dependencies.
* Setter Based Dependency Injection.
  * Often preferred in Spring application, somewhat more flexible than constructor based injection.
* Which to use ? (a lot of debates).

### Interface Based Dependency Injection

* It is considered as best practice to code dependencies to an interface.
  * This practice is closely aligned with the **SOLID** principles of Object Oriented Programming.
  * Allows for flexibility in composing the behavior of classes.
    * For example different implementations can be injected to support different behaviors, and 
    Mocks can be used to facilitate unit testing.
  