### What is JPA?
* The Java Persistence API is the standard in Java for ORM.
  * Object Relational Mapping.
* The API is desined to build a **bridge**  between object data in `Java`, and relational 
data in a database.
* Traditionally has been used ith `SQL` Relational databases.

### Java Persistence API History
* JPA 1.0 was released May 11th, 2006.
* JPA 2.0 was released December 10th, 2009.
* JPA 2.1 was released April 22, 2013.

### JPA Implementation
* `JPA` is just an API Standard.
* To use `JPA`, you need a JPA Implementation.
* JPA 2.1 Implementation:
  * Hibernate.
  * EclipseLink (formerly TopLink).
  * DataNucleus.

### JPA Entities
* A JPA Entity is just a **POJO** - Plain Old Java Object.
* Generally, it should only have properties, getters and setters.
* Can have relationships with other entities.
  * Order, Order Lines, Products.

### Entity Manager
* An **Entity Manager** is the object use to **persist/fetch** objects from the database.
* This will handle all the `SQL` under the covers, and bindings of the relational data to 
the entity object.

### Transactions
* Transactions are an important concept.
* Transactions allow you to rollback or commit.
* This avoids partial transactions being persisted.
  * If an error occurs, you can undo prior updates.
  
### Relationships
* **OneToOne** : each entity has exactly oen reference to the other.
* **OneToMany / ManyToOne** : A list. An order would have many lines. But an order line belongs to 
just one order.
* **ManyToMany**: two related lists.
* **Embedded**: an 'object' stored within a table. Used for common sets of properties.

### Data Types
| Java          | SQL |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| String        | VARCHAR (CHAR, VARCHAR32, CLOB, TEXT)  |
| Number, Int, Long, Float, Double, short, byte  | NUMERIC  |
| Boolean       | Boolean    |
| Date          | TIMESTAMP  |

### Criteria API
* The criteria API is a `Java` based API which can be used to query for objects from the database.
* Written in `Java`, not `SQL`.
* Converted into `SQL` by the JPA implementation.

### Data Access Objects Pattern
* Using Data Access Objects (DAOs) is a common design pattern with JPA.
* JPA is a good standard, but also can be called "leaky", since persistence details leak into the 
implementation.
* This allows for a clean abstraction of dealing with **EntityManager** and transactions.

### Repository Pattern
* Very similar to the DAO pattern.
* Offers a greater abstraction than the DAO pattern.
* Used by Spring DATA JPA.
* Becoming more popular.

### Repository Pattern vs DAO Pattern

| DAO Pattern                                               | Repository Pattern |
| ------------  | ------------------ |
| is an abstraction of data persistence                     | is an abstraction of a collection of objects |
| is a lower-level concept, closer to the storage systems   | is a higher-level concept, closer to the Domain objects  |
| works as a data mapping/access layer, hiding ugly queries | is a layer between domains and data access layers
|                                                           | is hiding the complexity of collating data and preparing a domain object |
| can't be implemented using a repository                   | can use a DAO for accessing underlying storage  |


 
