## Problem
* Historically, Controllers have been difficult to test due to a high degree of 
coupling with the web context.
* Spring MVC does a great job of decoupling from the web context, but at the cost of 
the framework obscuring the web context.
* Before Spring MVC Test, there was no standard way of unit testing a web request.

## Spring MVC Test History
* Spring MVC Test started as a stand-alone project within the Spring Framework in Release 3.1.
* Spring MVC Test became part of Spring MVC in the 3.2 release of the Spring Framework.

## Spring MVC Test
* Spring MVC Test works by using a mock web context, allowing you to test a web request and its 
interactions with the Spring MVC Dispatcher Servlet.
* This enables testing of Spring controllers:
  * Includes: handler mappings, url parameters, parameter bindings, request type mappings.

## Why Use Spring MVC Test?
* Allows controller tests to be 'unity'
  * Allows unit testing of framework configuration.
  * No web container,such as Tomcat, needed.
  * No Spring context required.
  * Unit tests remain very fast.

## JUnit
* JUnit is a highly popular unit testing for Java.
* JUnit is often used in conjunction with Spring MVC Test.
* JUnit is the unit test framework, Spring MVC Test is a framework for testing Spring Controllers

## Mockito
* The JUnit framework does not have any native mocking facilities.
* Mockito is a leading mocking framework for Java.
* Mockito is commonly used to test injected dependent objects, such as services, with Spring MVC Test.

## JUnit/Mockito and Spring MVC Test?
* JUnit and Mockito are likely the most common combination you will see in enterprise use.
* TestNG is also a popular unit testing framework.
* Easy Mock and jMock are also popular alternatives for Mockito.
 
