#  The history of EJB & the birth of Spring Framework

## Enterprise Java Beans (EJB)

- The original EJB specification was released in 1998.
- EJB was Sun's vision to address the needs of companies implementing large scale websites.
  * Remember: This is the time frame of the .COM **BOOM**.
- EJB Promised scalability, security, and high availability. 

## Reality of EJB

- While EJB looked great on the paper, in reality adopters found EJB was:
  * Time consuming to configure.
  * Error prone.
  * Tightly coupled to the application server, making it difficult to test.
  
## J2EE without EJB

- In 2002, the founder of the Spring Framework, Rob Johnson, released the initial version of Spring.
- In 2004, Rob Jonson published the book Expert One-on-One J2EE development without EJB.
  * Book was published with the 1.0 release of the Spring Framework.
  
## 2006 Jolt Award

Tired of gluing application layers by hand ?

The Spring Framework uses **Dependency Injection** to tie components together for simplifying,
JMS, JMX, Hibernate and AOP.

Spring also increases testability by making parts of the application easily interchangeable with
mock or alternative implementations.

The Framework integrates neatly with others (such as **Struts**), and an Eclipse plug-in makes its
manipulation human friendly. 

**By (David Dossot).**

## Spring vs EJB

* Since the inception of Spring, there has been much debate about the Spring Framework vs Enterprise
Java Beans.

* EJB was a community standard sponsored by Sun (now Oracle) and supported by other major companies
such as IBM.

* The Spring Framework is Open Source, originally backed by Spring Source, now Pivotal.

## Which is Better?

- **Spring vs EJB** has been a hot topic in computer science since Rob Johnson published his first book.
- **The EJB** standard has evolved to address  number of the core problems of the original standard.
- Today, Spring continues to have the greatest marketshare, and continues to gain marketshare from
EJB.

## Why is Marketshare Important?

- **Marketshare** demonstrates the maturity of the technology.
- **Marketshare** also shows where companies are investing.
  * Through investment comes employment opportunities.
- **Marketshare** also shows momentum.
  * Spring continues to evolve and remain relative to enterprise application development.