## 1. Overview on Spring MVC

 1. A client make a request.
 2. The request comes to **Dispatcher Servlet (Front Controller)**.
    * A component from Spring which handles the communications with the client (HTTP request, attributes...).
 3. The request comes to a specific **URL**, the **Handler Mapping** going to determine which controller, 
 controller method
 is going to be invoked.
 4. That's goes back to the **Dispatcher Servlet** which passes it to **the Controller**.
    * The controller should be fairly generic by handling a specific web request.
    * The controller should be a simple traffic cup.
       * Getting the request in.
       * Passing something to the backend service to handle that request.
       * Getting data from the backend and returning it.
 5. Then, we inject the service into the controller.
 6. The service is going to get the data for the request (backend (getting, persisting ...)).
 7. The controller is going to sending back a model to the **Dispatcher Servlet**.
 8. **Dispatcher Servlet** is going to invoke the **View**.
 9. The **View** is going to render the data.
 
### Notes: (Separations of concerns)
 * Controllers should be very clean. (should be Acting like a traffic cup).
 * A controller should not interact with a Database (dirty code, hard to :test, work with).
 * A component should have single function in life.
 * A controller should: 
    * calls the service layer.
    * service layer is the responsible for interacting with backend.
 * A controller should not know if we are interacting with a database, webservice ...
 * A view should not make a database requests.
 
 
 
